2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?
In five years, I see myself as a frontend web developer engineering websites that service the Cloud.  With my background in Psychology, Graphic Design and initial, basic understanding of the web development languages HTML and CSS, I see myself making a big splash in front end web development.  Professionals I have polled have told me that this is a growing area which is in great need of recruitment of women.  One developer I spoke to mentioned her husband’s firm recruited heavily, but at an event they hosted at Microsoft there were only two women in attendance.  As his wife and a women software developer, she noticed the difficulty they were having recruiting in this area though it was quickly growing with many available opportunities.  I can leverage my strengths in and passion for front end web development, while building on my knowledge of the programming languages that will deliver it to me.  I am especially interested in ADA’s ability to teach the javascript programming language.  I expect that will be my most favorite of the classes.  Javascript delivers a seamless yet elegant web experience.  It is the script behind making buttons grow and expand, play music and video along with the web experience, create animated effects that deliver a captivating website experience for each user.
Building my knowledge aptitude in front end web development over the years will require me to pass many certifications along the way.  I am ready for the challenge these may bring.  I study hard, apply myself and remain adhered to the goal.  Each stack I will build on will bring me closer to the facility of developing phenomenal tools that pull in people at the highest level.
In 5 years, I plan to be at the Senior Software Engineer level at a large company like Microsoft.  I particularly like Microsoft because of the diversity and inclusion GM Gwen Houston promotes and that I see displayed on campus.  Daily, I am surrounded by people of every race, gender and definition of gender.  Women are prominent on campus.  There are fewer African Americans and Latinos/as, but still quite a few.  At Microsoft, I am surrounded by the crème of the crop.  It is especially nice to see a company that has high ranking officers who are minorities and women.  A company who holds the standard in so many areas of software, digital products, AI, the Cloud, etc. is still so willing to innovate and venture into new business areas of technology.  I like the perks, big budgets and large teams and resources available to employees in a large company.  My background and expertise are both in corporate and in startup environments.  With that, I have the facility to do both but my preference would be to dedicate to the corporate environment preferably at Microsoft.

