Essay #3 August 2017
3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community? http://adadevelopersacademy.org/program 
I have long contributed to working on behalf of underrepresented minorities which relates to the diversity and inclusion piece in Ada’s vision as it works to celebrate those who have varying backgrounds and who may be underrepresented in the field of tech.    My plan is as Ada contributes the women piece of those underrepresented related to software engineering, the organization will add technology to nonprofits whose mission and vision Ada deems appropriately align with Ada’s goals of providing diversity and inclusion among its’ members who also may underrepresented in other areas of their lives.  Through hackathons to develop software solutions and innovations for work in nonprofit fields related to diversity and inclusion, Ada will host days where nonprofits each focusing on aspects of diversity and inclusion could take a turn in the form of an all-day get together with Ada.  Working with these featured nonprofits, innovative software solutions will be developed facilitating the work that these nonprofits do.  
I have contributed to several nonprofits in the Seattle are whose goal is to promote safe havens of diversity and inclusion for those in often underrepresented minorities of one form or another.  In addition to spearheading the idea as an effort with my free time and working with Ada staff, I plan to reach out to the groups I’ve worked with to ask if they would like to participate in the Ada All Day Hackathons.  At the All Day Hackathon, ideas would be brainstormed to transform aspects of how these organizations operate making it easier to adhere to their commitment of providing diversity and inclusion efforts in the communities where they are involved.  The Northwest African American Museum, which I’ve worked with as Director of Development in the past, could develop an app with expertise from Ada promoting events and giving opportunities to buy group discounted tickets, for example.  Rain City Rock Camp for Girls where my daughter attends each summer could receive web development related to creating a page which uploads an applicant’s Express Yourself piece (a creative piece centered around the camp theme for that year like ‘Get Fierce’).  Currently those pieces need to be mailed or emailed.  This would provide a page on a website where the piece could be uploaded whether in the form of a picture or the actual creative piece to a catalog Rain City Rock Girls camp could view and archive online.  These brainstorming All Day Hackathons could produce ideas that Ada students would have the option to assume as their Capstone project if preferred working with the respective organization.
I have connections with a few of the nonprofits in the area related to women and underrepresented minorities in Tech.  My daughter’s father, Eric Osborne is the co-founder of HERE Seattle, a networking and mentorship group for women and underrepresented minorities who are in the Tech field.  They may be interested in coordinating with us in the All Day Hackathon perhaps to create a technology solution for fundraising that Ada could leverage as well.
My work with Urban Financial Services Coalition (UFSC) since 2010 covers extending opportunities to women, African Americans, Latinos and other underrepresented minorities in the Financial Services fields.  The group hosts Scholarship Dinners, workshops and Oratorical competitions as well as a yearly Golf Tournament.  I was recently invited to a Movin On Up get together at the Columbia Tower where they have moved their offices that I attended.  During my tenure, I held roles like Sponsorship Chair, Marketing Communications Chair and co-planned the Annual Scholarship dinner.   Attending the All Day Hackathon with Ada would benefit them through finding innovative solutions on how to display the results of their Oratorical Competition, for example.
These are just a few of the nonprofits I’ve worked with who devote their time to diversity and inclusion needs amongst the mainstream.  Working with these groups as participants in the ADA All Day Hackathons would be both beneficial for their missions as well as give Ada better reach by extending their outreach to leverage strengths in areas where diversity needs to be included.
Within Ada, I would contribute to the culture of diversity through sharing my own experience as an African American female.   As the Director of Development for Northwest African American Museum, I raised $17 million for the $22 million capital campaign establishing Museum at the Colman School on the lid of I-90.  The museum is thriving and still exists today.  The main exhibit “The Journey Gallery” chronicles the migration patterns related to specific timeframes of Northwest African American history.  As a native Northwesterner myself who was born and raised in Seattle, I have a specific story to tell about when and why my parents migrated here.  Many people in Seattle and in Tech are transplants and it is somewhat rare to find native Northwesterners.  At Ada, I would be excited to share the stories we collected at the Museum as well as my own to shed light on what it is like being a native Northwesterner in the African American population.
As a Receptionist at Microsoft through Novitex Enterprises, we receive a list of meetings being held in the company’s large public meeting spaces weekly.  Get togethers like these abound for the company whether it is the Blacks At Microsoft group meeting with the CEO to discuss initiatives which will pull in Black employees or the Microsoft Irish Club hosting a series of get togethers on Brazil.  This is the way a large, global Tech company with a diverse population celebrates and shares diversity among it’s employees.  There are women coffee meetings for Women in the Cloud and Cricket games to engage the interests of those whose countries participate in the game like Britain or countries in East India to name a few.
For Ada, I would organize get togethers for the program around specific topics whether it is an outing to a movie like “Hidden Figures” which relates to both African Americans and the Tech/Engineering field or a potluck celebrating different foods of the cultures who migrated here.  
My daughter attends Rain City Rock Camp for Girls each summer in Seattle.  Like Ada, it is also a program for transgender and non binary gender individuals.  Although the field and age group are unrelated, there is a Women’s Rock Camp they produce twice yearly.  The Executive Director and camp staff are experts at running workshops which validate gender roles and choices in today’s society.  In one workshop, the girls chose pronouns that defined them.  Campers were able to choose to be either a “Her;” a “Him or a “They/Them.”  It may be worth collaborating with their staff on hosting a workshop or panel discussion at Ada.  The camp workshops cover everything from gender roles to self esteem and discussion of women’s portrayal in the media in a fun, outgoing environment.
The most important thing when dealing with those of various gender roles and/or sexual preferences is to remember we are all individuals with different interests.  I have bonded with a transgender female at work over tips on presentation styles because I know she is a strong presenter.  She has shared greetings with me in over 10 languages because she feels getting to know other culture’s greetings are important not to mention fun.  When dealing with individuals, I believe inclusiveness means taking that individual as an individual complete with their own interests and passions.
I have been asked by my alma mater Stanford to participate in Alumni interviews.  I will outreach to promote the standards of inclusion either through interviewing candidates during Phase 2 and Phase 3 aspects of the application process or by attending Educational fairs or Recruiting events to engage women in the African American and binary gender communities as well as others.

